bali is finally open for tourism and in
this video we're sharing everything you
need to know before booking a trip to
this paradise island
we'll be covering everything from entry
requirements where to stay daily budget
how to get around what to do and what
not to do if you find any of the
information in this video helpful we'd
really appreciate it if you could give
it a like and subscribe for more videos
like this right let's start this video
off with how to get to bali
[Music]
you'll want to book a flight to ingerai
international airport big airlines are
adding direct routes to bali now so
you'll no longer need to fly through
jakarta first like we did use google
flights to see what flights are
available as of may 30th there are 72
countries eligible for visa on arrival
with more countries being added every
day these on arrival means you will be
granted a 30-day tourist visa which is
extendable up to 60 days the price is
currently 500k idr or around 35
if you would like to spend more than 60
days in bali then you can apply offshore
for the b211 business or tourist visa
there are various agencies you can
contact that provide this service and
will usually get your visa approved
within a week the cost is always
changing but as of right now it is
around 3.5 million idr the nice thing is
that this visa is renewable on the
island so you will not need to do a visa
run and leave the country okay let's
quickly just touch on the requirements
which are changing all the time so we
advise you check in with your visa agent
to get the updated ones but as of right
now these are the requirements step one
you have to fill out the ehack
international form which is an app
before departure step two after arrival
you will have to have your vaccination
certificates ready step three your ehack
and hotel booking will be checked at the
airport step four after passing multiple
checkpoints which include checking for
health insurance return of an onward
flight ticket within 30 or 60 days you
will have your visa on arrival you can
pay for your visa on arrival with a
credit card or the equivalent in a few
foreign currencies step five collect
your bags pass the checkpoints and go to
your transportation as of right now you
will need a double vaccination to get
into bali without a quarantine and you
will need the ehack app downloaded
before you land if you are only single
dose vaccinated then you will have to
serve a five day quarantine at your own
expense
the currency here is indonesian rupiah
and is usually around 15 000 idr to one
usd once you get through customs there
are numerous money exchange services in
the airport itself although we've never
used any of these we don't recommend it
because the fees are always super high
at airports if you do want to use a
money exchange service you can find them
they are all over the island so just
head outside towards seminyak kuta
chengu and you will find one
alternatively and what we do is we draw
from an atm with our credit cards and
every time we draw it's usually a fee of
eight dollars roughly there are atms all
over the island and there is a limit on
how much you can draw from an atm at one
time so you might have to use the atm
multiple times in a day but it's the
most convenient actually most places
accept credit cards so
that's a good thing you don't always
need cash we got away with spending most
of our money through credit cards just
with direct points of sales and then we
just draw about 3 million idr for a week
or two and that's just to pay for meals
that there were rooms and just picture
for your bike and small stuff
okay best time to visit bali the best
time to visit bali is between april and
october it's not as hot and it does not
rain as much the weather is usually
between 28 and 32 degrees pretty much
every single day during this time what
you need to know about the weather in
bali is that there's basically only two
seasons there's the wet season and the
dry season you don't want to be in bali
during the wet season because most of
your beach days will be ruined by the
extreme thunderstorms and downpours that
happen every day and they just come out
of absolutely nowhere so be aware if you
are going to go between november and
march it is rainy season the benefit
though of that is that prices for hotels
and things are a little bit cheaper
during this time the busiest time in
bali is normally between june and july
so european holidays it gets super busy
prices will be extremely high the island
will be crazy busy and the traffic just
will be dreadful off the rocker all
right following on from the weather
let's talk about what you need to pack
for bali this is my favorite part
because not a lot of people make videos
about this and there's quite a few
things you actually need to know about
traveling to bali and southeast asia in
general so basically you're packing for
hot and humid weather pretty much the
whole of your trip will look like that
unless you head up into the mountains
like munduk northern bali where the
temperatures drop quite a bit actually
and in the evenings it might be a little
chilly so you need like a thin sweater
it's nothing dramatic or anything
definitely because of the humidity and
the amount you're going to be sweating
every day you want to bring things that
are comfortable and breezy and avoid
whites i'm telling you now avoid white
clothing so you're looking at shorts
t-shirts sandals and one pair of good
walking shoes if you're going to be
heading up into the mountains and
climbing volcanoes it also gets really
freaking cold up there so do pack some
warm clothes if you do plan to do that
some other really important items that
you need to pack include a raincoat a
hat sandals aloe vera for when you're
sunburned reef safe sunscreen because
it's actually very expensive in bali and
hard to find diarrhea medication if you
plan on eating the local foods because
barley barley is real another one for
the ladies bring your sanitary products
and thrush medication if you're prone to
that and if you're gonna have a little
bit of a fancy night out on the town do
pack a
nice looking outfit and some good shoes
because certain clubs and bars in bali
are quite bougie and they do have dress
codes but bali is not a very desolated
island and you can find most of these
things they've got h m's zara's
beautiful boutique shops all sorts of
things they've got pharmacies markets
thrift shops it's a very developed
island and you'll be surprised how much
you can find there so don't worry if you
do forget anything don't stress you'll
be fine moving on to the next section
these are some of the apps you need to
download before you come to the island
number one is most definitely whatsapp
it is used all over the place for
organizing your drivers even ordering
food from restaurants organizing a place
to stay such as a villa
communication using whatsapp is super
important secondly facebook is also
important if you want to look for
apartments and places to stay that's
also used very frequently the next two
very important apps are grab and go jack
grab is basically the uber you're going
to use it to call your motorbikes your
food your cars and gojek is the exact
same except it's the indonesian version
does basically the same but it is a
little bit cheaper on gojek you can even
order medication on gojab it it go
good job not bad it's not a bad one
that's how freaking awesome the app is
definitely download it so if you're down
and out with barley belly one morning
yeah just hop on the app and order your
medication straight to your villa then
the last app we recommend is google maps
it's used to navigate on the island the
other apps don't really work apple maps
doesn't work so make sure you get google
maps and then you can go ahead and
download the offline maps when you're
heading out into the remote areas where
there's no signal you'll have maps in
your back pocket okay time to talk about
money
this is
really dependent on you and your barley
itinerary but i'm happy to tell you that
you don't have to spend your entire life
savings to pay for a trip to this
beautiful island it is quite an
affordable island granted there are
certain things that are expensive but
let's get into the different budgets the
three different budgets are super
budgets or backpacker vibes you're
looking at spending around 20 to 50 usd
a day pretty darn good i'd say second
one is our budget and that is
comfortable brackets it's not too budget
but it's not too bougie either and
you're looking at paying between 50 and
80 usd a day for that one and then the
budget type that we aspire to have
that's luxury uh anything over a hundred
dollars a day honestly is luxury you can
push it way higher though you could
easily spend a thousand dollars a day no
jokes on the island depending on your
accommodation and what restaurants you
eat at five-star restaurants
massages alcohol all of that obviously
the longer you stay though the better
deals you'll get on monthly rates on
airbnb
gym memberships co-working spaces all
sorts of stuff bike hire too if you are
an aspiring digital tournament and
wondering how much a month of expenses
looks like then definitely check out
this video linked above it's our cost of
living in bali we lived there for a
couple of months and we share all of our
expenses next up is accommodation the
island offers a wide variety of places
to stay from world-class five-star
hotels to backpacker homestays and
hostels in between there are affordable
and comfortable airbnbs everywhere we
booked 90 of our short-term stays using
airbnb and the rest of our bookings were
made using a goda we can also recommend
using booking.com you'll be able to find
anything from small intimate couple
getaways to massive 8 bedroom villas to
share with friends the variety of places
to stay on the island is truly
remarkable so spend some time seeking
out the perfect place to suit your needs
we generally go for guest houses though
where you have a private room and a
shared kitchen and certain amenities and
a pool that's pretty important
next up is transportation
when you arrive at the airport you'll
most likely be hounded by taxi drivers
we usually ignore these guys because
they often are very pushy and will
charge an arm and a leg if you do take a
taxi then make sure it's at least a
bluebird taxi we've used them a couple
of times and have never had a bad
experience they use a meter and never
try to scam us alternatively we can
recommend you contact the place you are
staying at and either ask them to
organize a shuttle service for you or if
they know a driver that can pick you up
a ride from the airport to say seminyak
or changu would usually cost between 200
and 400k idr once you're all settled in
you can head out looking for a bike to
hire so that you have your own wheels on
the island bike higher prices fluctuate
all the time with supply and demand like
anything else but the usual going rate
is around 1 million idr per month if you
want to rent daily then you can pay
anywhere from 100k per day to 250k
depending be sure to negotiate you will
need to give your passport information
so take your passport with you they'll
have to make a copy legally speaking you
do need an international license to be
able to ride a motorbike on the island
but i beg you if you're not experienced
with a motorbike don't rent one there
are far too many accidents at the moment
the traffic is crazy and that's because
there's a lot of people riding
motorbikes on the island that have no
idea what they're doing don't put
somebody else's life in your hands
rather just use the grab and go check
it's so cheap and so easy to use but if
you are experienced and know how to ride
a motorbike then definitely go ahead and
rent one but remember to wear your
helmet okay do note if you do get into
an accident on the island your travel
insurance will require you to have a
license before they help you out stay
tuned and we'll share our favorite
travel insurance with you guys next up
is going to be traffic traffic on the
island is quite bad it can take 40
minutes to travel from the airport to
ubud or changu the roads are very thin
and there are a ton of bikes and cars
trying to get around we recommend using
grab or gojek rather to help curb the
traffic congestion next up is language
and culture the language on the island
is bahasa bali or bahasa indonesia but
most people that you'll come into
contact with speak english pretty
fluently a couple don't they'll be
broken english but you'll definitely
survive most hotels and restaurants have
people fluent in english and a couple
other languages actually so you'll be
more than fine we do suggest learning a
couple of the basic phrases the uh
because well it's just common decency
when you go to a foreign country you
want to communicate with them and
they'll love you they'll appreciate that
you took the time to learn their
language if you do want to learn a
little bit i suggest going on to babble
and doing the free lessons in indonesian
it will help me a hell of a lot to learn
a little bit about the numbers and just
basic greetings so check that out
for culture the balinese are a very
culturally rich group of people they
have many celebrations sometimes even
every 100 days remember to always be
respectful of their temples be mindful
of the offerings that you will see
placed on the road and at entrances to
hotels and restaurants please don't kick
these
ladies you will need to be covered up
when at a temple and men will also need
to cover their legs this is also a
requirement at the government buildings
such as when you go to renew your visa
and one more custom to be aware of is
it's very respectful to
give and take with your right hand and
not your left indonesian
subscribers can you let us know in the
comments what the reasoning is for that
i definitely always do it anyway but i'm
actually not sure what the reason is
behind that next up is where to go we've
luckily got two videos to guide you
first video is the top 10 places to
visit in bali and second is our ultimate
road trip guide so check out those
videos to find out where to go next up
is what to eat when you're there don't
miss out on trying the amazing food the
island has to offer from the famous nasi
goreng meagring pisangareng goreng means
fried by the way to the incredible and
our favorite chicken curries or curry i
am and befriend um oh my gosh in indomie
and if you're craving a taste of home
there are western options all over the
island so don't even stress about that
next up is water and ice do not drink
the tap water
so on the island you will have to drink
out of bottled waters at all times you
can buy a big 20 liter one for about 20k
really really cheap or you can just get
them at any alpha mart the water is okay
to brush your teeth though but
definitely not good for consumption it's
not
oh my god do not even use the water to
brush your teeth use bottled water no
ways the locals will tell you so if
you're on the island for a short period
of time be very careful of this because
you don't want to ruin your time with
barley barely seriously all right
alcohol on the island it's kind of
expensive if you're going to go and
drink out you can look to pay anywhere
between
90k for corona to like 120k just for one
corona at a club but if you do want to
just get some beers and go to your villa
you can head to an alpha mart and they
are usually around 20k for beard and
alpha mart the island of bali has a
local liquor called iraq i think it is
and that stuff is potent a lot of the
cocktails at the cheap cocktail bars are
mixed with that stuff and it will get
you
lit
in fact it'll make you sick so just be
careful don't drink too many cocktails
just in case probably stick to bottled
beers and more upmarket cocktail bars
once again if you're on the island for a
short period of time you do not want to
spend days and days in bed okay now
let's talk about vaccinations this is a
bit of a tricky one because before we
travel to southeast asia our doctor
recommended that we get a couple of
shots from hpv shots rabies shots and
yellow fever but they actually it's not
required for you to if you're visiting
the island especially if you're gonna
stay away from the remote areas on the
island you'll be fine without them one
thing i would take note of is apparently
dengue fever is quite a big thing on the
island so protect yourself get your
immune system strong and just avoid
mosquitoes use lots of bug spray there's
no malaria on the island so you don't
need to take any medication for that
either at the end of the day bug spray
will be your best vaccination
next up is travel insurance we do not
travel without our travel insurance
safety wing they've saved us two times
and we'll keep repeating this they saved
us in 2019 as soon as the pandemic
started and we had to get a repatriation
flight back home they covered that
entire flight and the second time when
we were putting quarantine in indonesia
because red test positive for corona
and they covered that as well accidents
are prone on the island you might
have a motorbike accident you might slip
and fall at a waterfall just be covered
in case actually i think it's also a
requirement so you have to have travel
insurance to enter indonesia to actually
check for it now at the airport so make
sure you get it so if you're looking for
travel insurance the link for our travel
insurance will be down in the
description below next up is the length
of your stay we do recommend around two
weeks to have a full
experience on the island and to go home
with no regrets but if you do only have
a week then
it should suffice just be careful of
barley belly heat stroke and things like
that you don't want to ruin your one
week holiday next up is the electricity
the plug points that they use in bali
are exactly the same as the ones used in
vietnam and in south africa i'll put a
picture on the screen now so make sure
you have the right adapter when you come
best thing is to just pick up an adapter
before you leave home if not you will be
able to find them all over the island
once again next up is sim card and
internet you can get away with not
having a sim card if you're there for a
short period of time there's wi-fi
everywhere in the hotels the cafes
restaurants restaurants all over and the
speeds are pretty good if you do decide
to do a sim card definitely check out
telcom cell it is a little complicated
at the moment because you'll have to
register your imei number at a telecom
cell store but sim cards are so cheap
and data is cheap as well and there is
signal nearly everywhere on the island
you can expect to pay around 135k
idr for 35 gigs of mobile data you will
need a sim card to sign up for a grab
and gojek account although you can use a
local friends number to do that as well
next up let's talk about tipping it's an
optional thing to do on the island when
you get the check the service fee is
included already but we do suggest that
you just give an extra i don't know 5
10k it makes a lot of difference and
they'll really appreciate it pharmacy a
place i seem to have been
in nearly every day of my life
there's pharmacies everywhere around the
island it's called apotec in indonesian
so as soon as you see that word you know
there's a pharmacy there there's kimiya
pharmacy and guardians all over the
island you can get all sorts of
medication there and toiletries and
cosmetic products one thing we found was
headache tablets are ridiculously cheap
there for a pack of four really good
headache medications it's like 1k was it
like ibuprofen paracetamol mix is super
cheap so don't worry about bringing
those i just want to add quickly that
some beauty products have whitening in
it or cooling agents like the main stuff
so some of the stuff you find in there
is very foreign and interesting we don't
have whitening products here in south
africa so i was like what but it's a
huge thing in indonesia next up is
laundry so getting your clothes washed
on the island is pretty much the easiest
thing you can drive 100 meters and find
a laundromat right on the corner prices
are around 15k per kilogram so one
dollar per kg super super cheap super
efficient you'll get your clothes nice
and fresh and folded up the next day if
you are staying in a hotel definitely
avoid using the hotel laundry service
you will be charged like 20 times more
all right now let's talk about some
natural disasters earthquakes can happen
on the island of bali because it is in
the ring of fire although
very rarely and nothing too extravagant
we experienced two of them and it was a
bit of a wobble the pool went a bit
weird but it was okay another natural
disaster to be aware of there are
volcanoes on the island and they are
active
so
do just take notes of your surroundings
be a bit prepared look up what there is
to do in the case of a volcano erupting
or a tsunami or an earthquake just prep
yourself a little bit because it is
a possibility and it's something i was
actually genuinely worried about and you
should be right should be a little while
i have evacuation signs all over the
island near the beaches and also near
the volcanoes so yeah just take notes of
the routes that you need to follow if
something happens all right now let's
talk about what we think you should skip
on the island of bali personally we
haven't done it but we've heard from a
lot of travelers that it was a bit of an
uncomfortable experience and that is the
dolphin
viewing in lovina in the north of the
island there's far too many boats and i
don't know it's just a bit of a it's a i
don't know if it's a very
eco-friendly activity to do on the
island so if you're worried about that
maybe just skip the experience entirely
second thing that we're very passionate
about is do not do a day tour to nusa
penida island the island is jam-packed
with traffic the roads are terrible and
you will spend most of your day in a car
stuck in traffic so if you do plan to
visit the beautiful island of nusa
penida do spend a night make time for it
otherwise you will
not enjoy your experience on the island
we personally did it and it wasn't great
yeah we haven't been back yet we didn't
have a good time at all but hopefully
next time we go we will stay over if you
are looking for a place to stay you can
check out in the description tropical
glamping comes highly highly recommended
and the last thing we think you should
skip is lempuyong temple it's very much
an instagram versus reality moment
you'll see a lot of photos on the
internet of this beautiful temple with
mountain centered in the back and these
clear lakes at the bottom with a
beautiful reflection like a mirror
that's because it is a mirror
they do put a mirror in the photo to
make it to give it that effect but it's
nothing special
if you all about the photos then yeah
maybe go for it it'll make your
instagram look really cool but don't be
disappointed when you get there and see
that it's not what it looks like and if
you spend hours standing in a line just
for that photo so which it there are
huge lines there at the lempuyang temple
so if you don't want to stand in lines
and be disappointed then just skip that
alright let's get to things we do
recommend you do
a balinese cooking class a bicycle trip
through the local community the mount
batura sunrise hike river rafting and
tubing in ubud waterbomb is so much fun
to go hotel for a balinese dinner
experience the ketchup dance at uluwatu
temple
and watch all of our balinese videos in
our bali playlist for more suggestions
okay next up is safety we get asked this
quite often is barley safe and the truth
is i feel 100
safe on the island of bali we were there
in a very desperate time during the
pandemic and it was still one of the
most safest places on earth so
definitely not something that you should
worry about
at all but like everywhere in the world
there is petty prime and some theft so
just be cautious don't be too flashy
with your items and if you have a safety
box in your hotel room definitely
utilize it one tip i can give you and
the supplies to all over asia is don't
text with your phone facing the road
turn your back to the road if you're
going to need to take someone because
some people do drive by on bikes and
grab your phone out of your hands so
that's one thing that can happen just be
aware of it and also if you're on a
motorbike don't text on the motorbike
because they can come past you and grab
it there too and then in terms of scams
this can happen in southeast asia we've
heard of that but fortunately for us it
has not happened at all nothing has
happened in bali 99 of the people that
you meet on the island will be super
helpful super friendly we haven't really
had anything happen to us
no need to worry haven't even heard of
it happening to anyone else either and
finally other these are just really
random things that we think you should
know number one is basically carry
toilet paper wherever you go it's not
used that often second thing is there is
a random hose pipe looking thing with a
nozzle on it next to the toilet that's
the bum gun and that you use to clean
yourself when you go to the toilet we
miss it so much we love that thing and
we think it's more sanitary than just
using toilet paper be careful though
some have quite a
strong
squirt to them
and they actually hurt girls sometimes
it hurts so just be careful and third of
all if you do use toilet paper do not
throw it into the toilet throw it into
the bin you can clog some pipes and
cause a lot of damage they don't have a
sewage system like that so just throw
all of your tater pepper everything into
the bin next to anyway those things were
a little uncomfortable to talk about but
needed to be said that's basically
everything you need to know about bali
or everything we can think of right now
if you can think of anything else added
in the comments below we hope you
enjoyed it we hope you found it
informative if you did please don't
forget to leave a thumbs up and
subscribe if you want more content we'll
see you guys in the next one bye
also enjoy your trip have fun it's gonna
be life-changing and let us know how it
was in the comments below
you're going to love it
[Music]
you
